English Grammar Checker
The English Grammar Checker. English Grammar Checker Software Download and English Grammar Checker Free Download.
The English Grammar Checker helps you write better English and correct texts more efficiently.

Based on the context of complete sentences, English Grammar Checker Software uses patent-pending technology to correct grammar mistakes, misused words, and spelling mistakes with unmatched accuracy. Ginger's grammar correction software improves your text just like a human reviewer. The English Grammar Checker Software is available to download and has a free trial.


The World's Best Grammar Checker

Grammarly is an automated proofreader and your personal grammar coach. Correct up to 10 times more mistakes than popular word processors.
Instant proofreading

Instantly find and correct over 250 types of grammatical mistakes
Context-optimized vocabulary suggestions

Improve word choice with context-optimized vocabulary suggestions
Plagiarism detector

Avoid plagiarism by checking your texts against over 8 billion documents


Grammarly provides another set of eyes to help perfect your writing. Grammarly’s patent-pending grammar checking technology reviews and improves your text, correcting grammar, spelling, word choice and style mistakes with unmatched accuracy. Give Grammarly 60 seconds and see what pesky grammar errors you missed in your text!
Check Over 250 Points of Grammar

Lightning-fast, Grammarly scans your text for proper use of more than 250 advanced grammar rules, spanning everything from subject-verb agreement to article use to modifier placement. Skip out on those clunky grammar handbooks and trying to grammar check your own work — Grammarly is always at the top of the grammar game and accessible anywhere, ready to make your writing error-free.

Improve Any Text

Academic, professional and creative writings all require unique styles of editing. Grammarly’s technology adapts to your writing needs, ensuring that no matter what your project may be your grammar is impeccable. Just choose the genre of writing you need edited, and Voila! How might you utilize Grammarly’s proofreading prowess?

Students and Academia
Proofread essays and academic papers
Professionals
Polish emails, memos and proposals
Job Applicants
Edit resumes and cover letters
Authors and Writers
Proofread editorial copy, blog posts, and stories
English Learners and Native Speakers
Spell check, improve text and writing skills
Medical and Technical Writers
Grammar check medical reports, product descriptions and white papers
Context Optimized Synonyms

Words can make an impact, or they can fall flat. Enhance your sentences with Grammarly’s word choice suggestions that optimize for the context of your document. Readability and meaning are improved instantly.

Adaptive Spell Checker

Correctly spelled words used in the wrong context mean embarrassing mistakes for you. Grammarly spots erroneous use of lose/loose, affect/effect, lie/lay, there/their/they’re, and many more commonly confused words.

Plagiarism Detection & Citations

Grammarly finds unoriginal text before it gets you into trouble by checking for plagiarism against a database of over 8 billion documents. Grammarly not only brings borrowed texts to light, but also suggests citations.

Find Errors That Microsoft Word Can’t

Grammatical mistakes that go unnoticed by popular word processors and other grammar checker programs are caught by Grammarly.

Use Anywhere 
(and Everywhere!)

As a web-based application, Grammarly is available from any browser, with no download required. Grammarly also integrates seamlessly with the Microsoft® Office Suite, including Word and Outlook.

Improve Your Writing Skills

Like an English tutor, Grammarly identifies your most common mistakes and helps you understand how to avoid them, ensuring you are constantly building your grammar skill set.

Instant Results

Deadlines aren’t a problem here. Grammarly instantly proofreads your text and pinpoints areas for improvement so you don’t have to worry about looking for a proofreading buddy when it’s crunch time.

Fanatical Support

We love making fantastic products and talking to our users about their experiences. Our support representatives are available 24/7 to answer any questions you have about Grammarly. 