Where :

Once the center of the Islamic Empire, Syria covers an area that has seen
invasions and occupations over the ages, from Romans and Mongols to Crusaders
and Turks.
Who :
It is home to diverse ethnic and religious groups, including Kurds, Armenians, Assyrians, Christians,
Druze, Alawite Shia and Arab Sunnis, the last of who make up a majority of the
Muslim population.
How :
Modern Syria gained its independence from France in 1946, but has lived through
periods of political instability driven by the conflicting interests of these
various groups.
From 1958-61 it united with Nasser's Egypt, but an army coup restored
independence before the pan-Arab nationalist Baath (Renaissance) party took
control in 1963.
Soon coming under the control of a mainly Alawite faction of military leaders,
it has ruled ever since.
Why :
Political power, long held by a small mainly Alawite elite & the marginalization of large segments of society, and relatively deprived them from being effectively contributing to political, economic and social development.
The government loss of political and economic institutional ability to change over time and to respond to interests and expectations of society.
The government deals harshly with domestic opposition. Tens of thousands are
estimated to have been killed in the suppression of the 1982 uprising of the
Muslim Brotherhood in Hama.
Following the death of Hafez al-Assad in 2000 Syria underwent a brief period of
relaxation. Hundreds of political prisoners were released, but real political
freedoms never materialised.
In 2011-12 security forces used tanks, gunfire and mass arrests to try to crush
anti-government street protests inspired by the Arab Spring. These protests rapidly took on a more formal nature when the opposition began to organise political and military wings for a long uprising against the Baath government. In 2012, the stand-off escalated into civil war.
Syrian opposition :
The Syrian National Council (SNC) is a coalition of opposition groups formed in October 2011 to offer a credible alternative to the Syrian government and serving as a single point of contact for the international community.
Syrian rebels :
There are believed to be as many as 1,000 armed opposition groups in Syria, commanding an estimated 100,000 fighters.
More than two years after the uprising began in Syria, the opposition remains fractious and deeply divided.
The rise of the Al-Nusra front, a radical Islamist militia allied to al-Qaeda,
in rebel ranks led to a marked cooling of international and regional support for
the opposition in mid-2013, and allowed the government and its Hezbollah allies
to launch a counter-offensive.
References :
BBC (2013, October 8). Syria profile. BBC News. Retrieved from http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-middle-east-14703856
BBC (2013, October 17).Syria crisis: Guide to armed and political opposition. Retrieved from http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/world-middle-east-24403003
Policy Research (January 2013): “Socioeconomic Roots and Impact of the Syrian Crisis”. The Syrian Center for Policy Research. Retrieved from http://www.scpr-syria.org/tmpPreLaunch/SyrianCrisisReportEN.pdf