
Here are some questions to test your knowledge of collocations:

What is the difference between a high window and a tall window?
Look at the following pairs of phrases and in each case choose the most usual collocation:
strong tea / powerful tea
a strong car / a powerful car
a strong computer / a powerful computer
a strong drug /a powerful drug
Now look at the following words and phrases and decide if we do them or make them. For example, do we do a mess or make a mess?
a mess	a mistake	the housework	the beds
a noise	a wish	a test	a promise
a job	someone a favour	your best	a speech
the shopping	damage	a telephone call	your hair (i.e. comb it or make it tidy
Finally some odds and ends. See if you know the correct collocations in answer to the following questions?

The opposite of strong tea is weak tea. What is the opposite of strong cigarettes, a strong wind, a strong smell?
What is the usual way of describing someone who smokes a lot?
a big smoker
a strong smoker
a hard smoker
a heavy smoker
a furious smoker
Someone can be very tired, but not very awake or very asleep. What do we say instead?
What is the opposite of sweet wine?
Which of the following are the usual collocations?
completely beautiful
incredibly beautiful
absolutely beautiful
extremely beautiful
totally beautiful
utterly beautiful
thoroughly beautiful
The following collocations are incorrect. Can you sort them out?
to get in a building
to get on a car
to go in a ship
More on collocation : Interactive quiz

Answers
A high window is a window that is located a long way from the ground, whereas a tall window measures a long way from top to bottom.
We talk of strong tea, a powerful car and a powerful computer. A drug can be both strong and powerful.
These are the usual collocations with make or do:
make a mess	make a mistake	do the housework	make or do the beds
make a noise	make a wish	do a test	make a promise
do a job	do someone a favour	do your best	make a speech
do the shopping	do damage	make a telephone call	do your hair (i.e. comb it or make it tidy
Odds and ends. Here are the usual collocations:
mild cigarettes, a light wind, a faint smell
a heavy smoker
wide awake; sound asleep or fast asleep
dry wine
to get in a car; to get on a ship; to go in a building
incredibly beautiful; extremely beautiful (and possibly: utterly beautiful)
A question from a site visitor (how to assess collocate strength)

[* Since I wrote the above text, in 1990, matters have changed, and it is much more common to hear men described as beautiful, without any implication of feminity.]






"The problem for the learner of English is that there are no collocation rules that can be learned. The native English speaker intuitively makes the correct collocation, based on a lifetime’s experience of hearing and reading the words in set combinations."
