Strayer University

First On-Campus Professor of the Quarter, Winter 2006

English and Business Communications

Comments from Students

I wanted to list the techniques that Prof Bowman used that made the course great: Her syllabus really lays out ALL of her expectations, so there are no surprises throughout the course. She had a quiz on the Syllabus to ensure we read it thoroughly. The first week didn't require a textbook. Who has there textbook the first week of class? She responded almost instantaneously to ALL questions. The workload was exactly the right amount. Stuff was graded fast.

I could not have asked for a better instructor. Professor B. is the kind of instructor every student should have for every class. She's knowledgable about the subject, very communicative, understanding, tough when necessary and fair.

Professor Bowman is an extremely good instructor. She was very, very tough, but fair. She made the class very challenging, but very informative also.

Professor Bowman was very professional with the way she taught our class. She always let us know how to contact her and always replied in a timely manner. I hope I will have more instructors like her in the future.

The instructor made this course. She is very fair and challenging. I really learn a lot from this course. *

Thank you for a very well organized and great semester Professor Bowman. It was nice to have a Professor that kept a daily interaction with the class.

Prof. Bowman, appreciate your comments and feedback throughout the class. It's nice to have a professor who cares about the advancement of learning.

This course has pretty much covered all issues in regards to professional business communication. Prof. Bowman, I can really tell that you took interest in our work, because you would critique everything (which is a good thing) and I really needed that.

Thanks for a wonderful quarter. This has been my favorite class since coming to Strayer and for that I thank you.  I have greatly enjoyed your class and you actually make learning fun. 

Professor you have always responded quickly which is something not all online professors due, THANKS!!!

I really appreciated that you commented personally on discussions and homework assignments for every person in the class.

It has really been a pleasure having you this quarter. 

I really appreciated having a professor who responded quickly to questions on our Q&A board.

KUDOS to Professor Bowman for keeping us on our toes, but always being there should a question arise. I know I have leaned on you a few times and appreciate the quick response.

Any type of English class stresses me. Writing is not my strong point but yet this class made it feel natural.

I really enjoyed this class. Thanks Professor for challenging us and not just passing us along!

I really enjoyed this entire semester with you Professor Bowman! I think you're an excellent professor who has an excellent teaching style and full of useful information to share with the class.

Thanks for doing a great job and I have to agree with the rest of the class on your response time! I am really surprised at how quick you answered questions and graded our assignment. Great job!

Thank you professor, the assignments in this course was very challenging and I have learned a lot.

When I first realized I had to take this course I dreaded the thought of it, but you have really made it a lot of fun.

Thanks for all your assistance and confidence in my fellow classmates and me.

This being my first ever on-line class and having no comparisons to make, I'd say you're probably one of the best instructors in the on-line world of education and I can only hope that future courses are conducted in the same style and attention to detail that you've shown.

I really like the instructor; she has done a great job. *

Prf. Bowman is an outstanding instructor I would take more of her Classes if I needed to gladly.

Great responses to discussion assignments.

Prof Bowman is great. If I don't succeed in the course it will be no fault of the professor or the material but rather my busy schedule at home and work.

The instructor made this course very interesting. She challenged us in different areas.

Very good instructor. Very consistent with students and concerned with their well-being.

Prof. Bowman was a wonderful instructor! I really enjoyed her enthusiasm and personal experiences that she incorporated into the course materials. She has made this one of the most enjoyable courses that I've taken at Strayer. Thank you professor.

Prof Bowman really make us understand what the course is about. I will surely take her class if she is teaching any MBA course.

 

 

