The idea that lexical sequences behave like words has been widely propagated bylinguists such as Firth (1957) and Makkai (1992) and can be seen to have spreadbeyond the confines of lexicology and lexicography. For example, 'prefabs' arereferred to in language acquisition theory (Granger 1994) and represent the type of expression that language learners can expect to use safely with little mastery of alanguage. Psychologists in turn refer to 'formulae' to describe the extent to whichspeakers access and predict sequences of words (Clark 1985). And the 'lexical phrase',an expression with a specific rhetorical function, is now seen as an important unit intext and discourse analysis (McCarthy and Carter 1994).In addition, there is much evidence in mainstream linguistics to suggest thatmultiword items behave as single words. For example, Firth (1957) proposed thatgrammatical features and categories form predictable sequences (colligations) in
 
3
much the same way that single words form collocations. The idea has been pursuedrecently by van der Wouten (1997) in his discussion of long-range collocations andcolligations extending beyond the boundary of the phrase (such as the negativeassociated with certain moods and verb forms). The theory of grammaticalization inCreole studies similarly emphasises the evolutionary conversion of lexical items intofully grammatical forms (Schwegler 1990). Many of the studies cited above implythat the fixedness of certain expressions eventually leads to word formation, as can beseen in
because, parce que, of course, d'accord, maybe, peut-être
,
today, aujourd'hui
etc. and in the existence of well-known historical fusions (
lord 
derived from
loaf 
+
 ward 
,
vinaigre
from
vin
+
aigre
) (Gross 1996). Idioms, collocations and otherexpressions therefore exist on a different linguistic level than the simple word,although in time they are used and become recognised as though they were simplelexical items, a process known as lexicalisation (Picoche 1992).