Enter phrase contents
Giving Bad News

Unfortunately
I am afraid that


"Business Letter Format"
Ads

Business WritingCorporateTrainingMaterials.comSoft skills training materials to teach Business Writing skills.

روج لموقع الويب الخاص بكwww.google.com.sa/adwordsأعثر على عملاء أكثر مع Adwords ابدء نشاطك الإعلاني مع Google الآن

Speak English FluentlyLearnRealEnglish.comThe Secrets To Speaking English with Confidence. Free Email Course.
See More About

    business letters
    business english
    intermediate writing
    writing skills

Ads

Jobs in Saudi Arabia 2013www.bayt.com/saudi-arabiaAll New Jobs in Saudi Arabia. Apply Free!

Learn English for freewww.Busuu.comLearn English online and completely for free!

The basics of good business letter writing are easy to learn. The following guide provides the phrases that are usually found in any standard business letter. This basic of business letters are important because certain formulas are recognized and handled accordingly.

Think of a basic business letter in three steps:

    Introduction - The reason for writing

    The introduction helps the reader understand in which context the letter should be considered. Possibilities include job interview inquires, business opportunity requests, complaints, and more. Of course, Eeach type of business letter has its own standard phrases.
    Details - What you would like to accomplish

    The detail section of a business letter is extremely important. This is where you achieve your goals in writing a business letter.
    Conclusion / Next Steps - What you would like to happen in the future

    Provide a call for future action. This can be a chance to talk in person, a follow-up letter or more. It's important and expected to make it clear what you would like for the next step from the person reading your business letter.

The phrases presented in this guide provide a frame and introduction to the content of business letters. At the end of this guide, you will find links to sites that give tips on the difficult part of writing successful business letters - arguing your business objective. By using these standard phrases, you can give a professional tone to your English business letters. Once you understand these basics, you can refine your business letter writing skills by focusing on different types of business letters, as well as other business documents to refine your skills for your business needs at your employers or your own small business organization.

The Start

The start of any business letter begins by addressing the recipient of the letter.

Dear Personnel Director,

Dear Sir or Madam: (use if you don't know who you are writing to)

Dear Dr, Mr, Mrs, Miss or Ms Smith: (use if you know who you are writing to, and have a formal relationship with - VERY IMPORTANT use Ms for women unless asked to use Mrs or Miss)

Dear Frank: (use if the person is a close business contact or friend)

Note: If you are unsure how formal you should be, always choose a more formal form. Writing to a specific person is always preferred if at all possible.

The Reference
Begin by referencing a specific conversation or other contact means. If this is the first letter in a conversation, you can also provide the reason for writing.

With reference to your advertisement in the Times, your letter of 23 rd March,
your phone call today,
Thank you for your letter of March 5 th .

The Reason for Writing

I am writing to...

... inquire about
... apologize for
... confirm
... comment on
... apply for

Examples:

I am writing to inquire about the position posted in The Daily Mail.
I am writing to confirm the shipment details on order # 2346.
I am writing to apologize for the difficulties you experienced last week at our branch.

Once you have introduced the reason for writing your business letter, move on to stating more specifically the purpose of your letter. Here are a number of possibilities:

Requesting

Could you possibly?
I would be grateful if you could

Agreeing to Requests

I would be delighted to

Giving Bad News

Unfortunately
I am afraid that

Examples:

Could you possible forward your job requirements?
I am afraid that I will be able to attend the conference next week.
I would be delighted to give you a tour of our facility this coming month.