                  blog      subscribe 
home services testimonials about clients video contact/subscribe
"Debbie"s clear and
concise public
speaking direction
coupled with her
empowering
enthusiastic style,
has helped me
become an
accomplished public
speaker and
workshop facilitator" 
Diane Helbig
Seize This Day Coaching

testimonials	

 

"It is I who needs to be thanking you for making the evening such a success! Your ardor, your clarity in conveying your message and your conviction to our efforts made an impact on everyone (I know this based upon their evaluation responses)....add me to your reference list, I'd be happy to be your cheerleader."
Lynn Giroux
SVP- Chief Administration Officer
Essex Savings Bank

"I wanted to thank you for the amazing work you did with our staff and me. I cannot look at a power point without thinking "WWDD" (What Would Debbie Do?) "
Bob Wall 
Director Energy Market initiatives 
CT Clean Energy Fund

"Great presentation that we will all use.  I am still getting comments.  When I see people taking notes that is always a positive sign. Thanks again and YES, keep me on your list."
Gary Rayberg, CBI
President
ROI Corporation

"On my way back from the annual National Speakers' Association conference. Grateful I had you in my life when I needed you most.  You rank right up there with the big guys."
Dorothy A. Martin-Neville PhD

"I wanted to say thank you so much for helping me through my speech!
 I received my first donation since I started in December 2010...You're amazing! I felt so much more confidence in my speaking because I had a roadmap."
Tanisha Akinloye
Founder, Executive Director
Empowering Through Beauty, Inc.

"The votes are in Debbie. You were a hit. Feedback from the members was uniformly excellent and I trust you got the same message from verbal and non-verbal interaction with many of them..."
Dale Akinia II
Career Management Committee Chair
Financial Executives International, NYC Chapter

"Once again the reviews were great. I'm already getting requests from directors..."
Marybeth Sullivan
Southcoast Hospitals

"Thank you again from the bottom of my heart...You were exceptional, beyond amazing and the group can't stop talking about you. Your 
time and generosity really comes through loud and clear, not to mention your keen knowledge, energy and passion..."
Judy Rosenthal
Volunteer Program Facilitator 
Schmoozers' Network
West Hartford Jewish Family Services

...used your approach last week in Boston.Thank you so much for focusing me on the most effective approach. I have 6 solid contacts.Thanks again for your help."
Darrell Zwickler
zoonation.com

"Thank you!  You gave such a good talk at the conference yesterday.  Totally targeted, to the point, easy to understand,now all I have to do is my homework.  Thanks again for your talk.  It was fabulous.  It went by way too quickly."
Margaret McNally

"My presenation was very well recieved last Monday.  Thank you so much for your input, I dramatically changed my presentation..."
Dr. Leigh Damkohler

"....I remembered all you said and my nervousness simply disappeared the moment I started to speak!  You would have been so proud!  I will be recommending you to everyone I know.  You're a miracle worker."
Roslyn Carnage
VP of Human Resources
US Fund for UNICEF  

"Thank you thank you thank you! Your workshop "Great Presenters and Great Presentations" set the perfect tone for an exciting day of seminars at your annual conference this year. You were a class act to say the least. Perhaps even more importantly, your enthusiastic interaction with the attendees throughout the conference helped make this year’s event arguably the best one yet!"

Scott E. Briggs 
Senior Vice President 
Center for Financial Training 

"I can't stress enough how completely dynamic you were yesterday.  Naturally, as a public speaking teacher I was especially attentive to audience reactions  and you absolutely dazzled and inspired those 100 women."
Susan Baran
lecturer
Department of Communications
Bryant University


"What a wonderful experience working with you! Thank you for your time, enthusiasm and commitment."
Joan Cavanaugh, President
Boardroom Golf

"I love getting your newsletter.  It always teaches me something or nudges me to do something differently.  Thank you. Thank you.  I continue to quote you to my public speaking students."
Mara Braverman
Braverman Marketing and Communications

".... I listened to everything you told me, ....and practiced and practiced. It ended up being so fun! I got asked to give it 3 more times. But the best was that the next day I had e-mails & phone messages from complete strangers telling me how much they enjoyed it. And it never would have happened without you!"

Sharon McCormick
Sharon McCormick Designs, LLC

"I was blown away by your presentation! I am excited to put these tool into action for success!"
Kelly McCracken
RR Donnelley


"The presentation went beautifully! It was a hit and I presented better than I ever had before. I received kudos for my material and my delivery. I really learned something all of us need to know about effective material and our audiences. Thank you so much!"
Susan L. Bridges
Human Resources Manager
Latham & Watkins LLP

"Just wanted to let you know your "boy" Fernando improved his speaking skills immensely thanks to you. We will be giving an Employee Update this week and he's relaxed, prepared and ready, and the visual part of his presentation is streamlined.  Your lessons stay with us!"
Damian Mullin
Sales Manager
MUEHSTEIN


"So consider this a little feedback from one of your fans.  I definitely feel the quality of my own presentations has increased due to what I learned from you. For this I thank you!"
Thomas R. Nash, CPP, CFCI
Senior risk Management Analyst
American Eagle Federal Credit Union

"Thanks so much for your clarity and overall smarts! You have a wonderful way of collaborating and capacity to "get it"."
Dr. Ann Abram


"I wanted to thank you so much for everything I was able to take away from the Writing class as well as Presentation skills. In addition to all the pointers that brought to our attention, I left with a new sense of being able to do both in a more informed way. 

Again thanks and hope I have the opportunity to be part of another one of your classes!"
Brenda Brenda P. Austin 
Assistant VP of Operations 
Central Billing Office 
Womens Health CT 

"That was definitely me – petrified of getting up in front of people. To some extent, I still get nervous before delivering a presentation, but, since you gave your course here at CT Innovations, I actually enjoy public speaking sometimes. Without a doubt, you provided us with the tools to prepare a speech or presentation that would keep the audience interested, and that removes the biggest fear of all."
Dave Ljundquist 
CT Clean Energy Fund 

"The presentation was successful. The board unanimously adopted the proposal! …. Thanks for all of your great training!"
Paul 

"What a great presenation yesterday! I am so glad I attended.  Thank you for the priceless information..."
John A. Merereau, President
JAM's Mechanical Advantage, LLC

"Thank you so much for reading between all the emotions. It's a hundred pounds off my back. Thanks for making me look like a Silpada star!"
Sheila Longhi 
XPECT2SPARKLE 

"Debbie: 
Hi there. I had about 45 people at my break out session today. 36 handed in evaluations to the organization and I got to review them. On a scale of 1 – 10 where 10 was excellent, I had 3 8s, 2 9s, and 31 10s. Great reviews (nothing lower than an 8!). I also had 26 of the 45 come give me their cards at the end to get a copy of the presentation hand out. 26!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Unheard of really – that is a BIG percentage. 

I have to say, it was the best outcome I have had to date – especially in terms of the number of people who gave me their cards at the end and came up and talked to me one on one! Thanks for all your help! I know our work together contributed to this success!"
Kim McGillicuddy 
COO 
Pierson & Smith 

"Debbie’s knowledge, experience and no nonsense coaching style helped me eliminate my fears in presenting that has given me the added confidence I needed."
Michael Morin 
ACTION Coaching 

"I could not have gotten here without you. I would still swimming around in circles like one of the idiot kid toys that swirls in a circle until you take the battery out"
Sharon Horowitz PhD
Center North 

"If it wasn't for you, I'll be still floundering. I was a diamond in the rough and you polished me up." 
John Recchia 
Advanced Wealth 

"Your coaching made a definite difference in my interviewing presentation and in fact has permeated my communication style in many ways. I feel that as a result of working with you I am clearer and more genuine -- and enthusiastic -- in the messages I convey and as a result I can build trust sooner. Thanks to you!!!"
Nancy Zola 

"Hi Deb, 
Just an FYI I gave the talk today and it was a big hit. The CEO was there and loved it and wants me to come speak to her staff! Yeah! Thank you, thank you ! Thanks again for your expertise!"
Krista Polinski 
Soul Intent 

"I've just become the president of a women's business organization and have to run meetings and speak in public. I’m also the owner of an expanding business and find myself giving presentations to groups of clients, appearing on television, being interviewed on the radio, and marketing my business. I never thought of myself as a good public speaker, but Debbie has shown me how to do it. 

Debbie has taught me how to prepare for my presentations, how to envision myself actually speaking at the venue, and how to speak from bullets, rather than reading my presentation. I have much more confidence now and am able to focus on my message, gesture effectively and interact with my audience. 

In just a few sessions, Debbie helped me look, act, and sound much more capable, confident, and professional. When she is working with me, she is 100% interested, focused and excited! Debbie believes in my capabilities and me."
Rita Smircich 
President, Entrepreneurial Women’s Network 
Event Planner, Author "To Do Before I Do"

"Not only did Debbie improve my confidence and speaking skills, but her instruction on the "building" of my lectures has resulted in presentations that are clear, informative and engaging for my listeners. I now look forward to the very speaking opportunities that I avoided, at all costs, in the past. I have to believe that just about everyone could benefit from her training and organizational skills."
Gary Orelup, Photographer 

"I have utilized the services of Debbie Fay of BeSpeak Presentations on several occasions, and each time we've met, I have benefited greatly. I become very nervous when I have to speak in front of a group of people, and I've come to value and rely on Debbie's suggestions and insights about how I can make my presentation cohesive and interesting to my audience. But perhaps the most precious thing Debbie has given at our sessions is encouragement to believe that what I have to say is of value and that I CAN and WILL communicate my thoughts effectively. She's a highly talented and skilled speaking coach and has become an incredibly valuable resource to me in my efforts to promote my business. . ."
Susan Kaufman 
Fairfield Therapeutic Massage 

"I am a seasoned speaker, but my talks and presentation skills needed a "tune up". Debbie proved to be extremely competent, hugely creative with an effervescent personality that just instills confidence. One thing I noted as extremely important and unusual is her innate ability to know, to sense, what the audience will like. 

After our initial sessions I gave my first talk in Boston using PowerPoint for the very first time. I spoke to an audience of about 500. They were delighted and gave me very high ratings. But that’s not all, from that one talk I sold 75 copies of my new book and received more inquiries for consulting than I could possibly handle! I just couldn't have done it without Debbie, she is the BEST! I am going to continue my sessions."
Ed Laflamme 
The Harvest Group Landscape Business Consulting 

"You left your audience wanting more. Thanks for inspiring all of us to be better speakers!"
Peggy Arbus 
Entrepreneurial Women's Network 

"Thank you so much for such a lively and enlightening presentation. You gave the attendees some very important insights on developing and delivering effective powerpoint presentations. Your examples and anecdotes always are fresh and on target. You energized the attendees and gave everyone a lot of powerful ideas to consider. I was told by many on the way out what a great meeting it was. 

I don't know if you were aware, the woman who asked about making the PPT different from the leave behind is giving a PPT tomorrow and was changing it as you spoke!"
Bev Katz 
President, CT MENG 

"Debbie's talk really hit the spot for us. As professional organizers we present to groups a lot. Her Rule of Three and her message of "less is more" will really help us be more effective speakers. Her experience, energy, and use of props to make her point made for a wonderful presentation."
Jill McKean
Director of Professional Development
National Association of Professional Organizers, Connecticut chapter 

"I want to thank you again for giving such a great presentation at our FWI meeting on Tuesday. You gave us a lot of very useful information (I took three pages of notes!). I especially liked the tips about the use of silence and what makes an effective PowerPoint slide."
Linda Gabor
President FWI 

"You were a dynamo last night. You generated the audience with confidence, self-esteem and a new perspective on career acceleration. 

Thank you for sharing your invaluable insight that will influence many of us moving forward."
Best, 
Gary Diluca 

"Debbie - I had the pleasure of listening to your presentation last night at Darien Professionals and wanted to tell you that it was one of the single best talks on speaking that I have experienced - very to the point, well organized, and best of all, memorable! I have given presentations throughout my career, and though I have used some of your tips, I'm sure I could have benefited had I heard you years ago. You are a credit to your profession. I look forward to hearing you again some time!"
Sincerely, 
John Deakins 

"Isaiah, 
Thanks for having me to the event yesterday. Debbie Fay was fantastic. I do a lot of public speaking, so I really appreciated the tips and tricks. And she was dead-on with everything she said."

Thanks!
Chris 
Bean & Leaf 

"First of all let me say thank you for a GREAT! presentation. I have my notes at my desk, and they will make me a great speaker."
Michael K. Meakem 
President 
Center for Financial Training Atlantic & Central States 

"You rocked the room last night! Thank you for generously sharing your expertise…our guests were completely delighted and I heard many compliments on your style of presentation."
Ingi Loorand 
Reid & Reige, PC 

"Debbie, today was inspirational! Thank you for presenting such an informative workshop. Wow. It was great - and so are you!"
Denise Costable 
Alpha Interiors 

"Fabulous job today --everyone was raving. 
Nancy Jarmul Collamer 
Founder, Jobs and Moms 

"Debbie spoke to our group about enhancing communications effectiveness in public speaking. The content of her presentation was very helpful to people and her dynamic energy added an exclamation point to the talk."

Sincerely, 
Keith Reynolds 
Soundview Technology Cell 



203.259.6487beheard@bespeakpresentations.com newsroom         case studies          resources   
be heard.© Copyright 2008-2013 bespeak presentation solutions. All Rights Reserved. 
site designed by traciedesigns / site constructed by MDT Design LLC 