« Unleashing Intrinsic Motivation Through Servant LeadershipLeading Through Persuasion »
Leadership Coaching: Conflict Management And Resolution
February 26, 2012 | Author: PM Hut | Filed under: Conflict Management, Leadership


 
Leadership Coaching: Conflict Management And Resolution
By Mike Krutza

Conflict Is Both Good And Bad

Differences - a word that people often do not like. How about you? Even though there are some people who like to always cite differences, fixing them is another thing. As the leader of an organization, one has to know the proper approach and take time to settle differences even though they might not like it.

Conflict management is on top of the list of common tasks that confront leaders. Dealing with conflicts typically happens in the office. Unresolved conflicts can really be a headache because they affect work and productivity. Patience is the virtue a leader must learn in these situations, along with effective skills of conflict management.

Differences among employees arise from time to time, and a leader is tasked to resolve them. Conflict is generally viewed as a nuisance and a negative occurrence, but on the positive side, conflict can also be a time and opportunity for change. Yes, conflict can sometimes be beneficial to an organization. The common notion, nonetheless, is that conflict is negative. That’s why people resist it and they fight back. People give in to their instinct to protect and defend themselves which consequently aggravates the discord. And even an excellent manager is not able to sort it out.

Ways To Resolve Conflict

Avoidance
Conflict is often viewed as personal and people basically find ourselves off-guard to deal with it. People thus become aware and on the lookout, avoiding the possibility of being in disagreement with someone. In times of discord, a person typically thinks first before they fight back..

Gentleness

When somebody talks about somebody, people tend to jump into conclusions, which is not helpful at all. Allegations should be confirmed first, and there should be effort to really listen to both sides. Getting ample information and understanding leads to a better resolution.

Diplomacy

When trying to contain the situation, a leader has to be very careful. Emotions are tense in times of conflict, so diplomacy has to be used. Responses have to be prudent and well- thought of because they might offend the other party. There ought to be no singling or taking somebody personal while the situation is being discussed. On the other hand, the focus should be on conflict resolution.

Ending It Once and For All

The moment the options or solutions are identified, both parties should be counseled to agree on the resolutions and reconcile. This can be concluded with a hand shake or discussion over cup of coffee.


 

Mike Krutza specializes in executive coaching with individuals and teams. Visit Mike’s website here.

